French Open day 9 -- at a glance: Headlines + Djokovic powers into record 10th straight Roland Garros quarter-final + Reigning champion Halep through with 45-minute rout + Nishikori wins Paire five-setter to set up Nadal clash + Anisimova, 17, powers into maiden Grand Slam quarter-final + Thiem beats Monfils, Zverev gets past Fognini Top results Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Jan-Lennard Struff (GER) 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 Simona Halep (ROM x3) bt Iga Swiatek (POL) 6-1, 6-0 Kei Nishikori (JPN x7) bt Benoit Paire (FRA) 6-2, 6-7 (8/10), 6-2, 6-7 (8/10), 7-5 Amanda Anisimova (USA) bt Aliona Bolsova (ESP) 6-3, 6-0 Alexander Zverev (GER x5) bt Fabio Fognini (ITA x9) 3-6, 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 (7/5) Dominic Thiem (AUT x4) bt Gael Monfils (FRA x14) 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 Sidelines 'We'd all be dead' Madison Keys wasn't keen on the idea of life being exciting all the time after a straightforward win over Katerina Siniakova. "I think every aspect of life can be boring at times. I think it would be exhausting if it was exciting all of the time. I think we'd all be dead as soon as we got onto the court." American 14th seed Keys has now reached successive quarter-finals at Roland Garros having previously struggled on clay. Laver tips fellow Aussie Barty Australian legend Rod Laver said he thinks compatriot Ashleigh Barty can win the title on Saturday, posting a photo of the pair together at Roland Garros on Twitter, writing: "You can go all the way, no question." "It popped up on my feed. But, yeah, I mean, he's an incredible person," Barty said after her 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 fourth-round win over Sofia Kenin. "It was pure luck that our cars arrived at the same time... It's really nice to be able to play in front of him." Halep, 27, 'feeling old' Simona Halep said she was feeling her age, after beating 18-year-old Iga Swiatek, nine years her junior, in only three quarters of an hour in the last 16. "I feel old. To play against someone (almost) 10 years younger than me, that's not easy." Throwing the towel Keys gave a towel to a child after her win, but it was then stolen by an adult. "We had some words after this and luckily I saw it and rectified the situation," she wrote on Twitter. "People man." Impending arrival, new heights for Khachanov Russian 10th seed Karen Khachanov has plenty to look forward to after securing his maiden Grand Slam quarter-final with a four-set win over two-time semi-finalist Juan Martin del Potro. Khachanov thanked his heavily-pregnant wife after the match which finished in the Paris gloom on Court Suzanne Lenglen, before telling his box: "Let's go for more." He will face Thiem in the last eight on Wednesday. Who's saying what "Explendid? Explendid?" Sofia Kenin struggles to sum up her run to the last 16, which included a shock win over Serena Williams, in one word. "Wawrinka and Tsitsipas yesterday was incredible tennis. And then to see that whole match come down to Stan hitting a passing shot that's just touching -- like, it's things like that make tennis so special." Keys was gripped by Stan Wawrinka's epic win over Stefanos Tsitsipas on Sunday. "Trying to eat your lunch immediately after a trip to the dentist is one of the more complex tasks a human can face. #numb" British doubles player Jamie Murray has been to see the dentist after an early exit in Paris.