French Open day 7 -- at a glance: Headlines + Serena in earliest Slam loss since 2014 + Osaka sees bid for third straight Slam title end + Djokovic continues serene progress in bid for second 'Djoko' Slam + Defending champion Halep powers into round four + Tsitsipas first Greek player to reach second week in 83 years Top results Sofia Kenin (USA) bt Serena Williams (USA x10) 6-2, 7-5 Katerina Siniakova (CZE) bt Naomi Osaka (JPN x1) 6-4, 6-2 Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Salvatore Caruso (ITA) 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 Simona Halep (ROM x3) bt Lesia Tsurenko (UKR x27) 6-2, 6-1 Stefanos Tsitsipas (GRE x6) bt Filip Krajinovic (SRB) 7-5, 6-3, 6-7 (5/7), 7-6 (8/6) Sidelines Five-set Zverev Alexander Zverev won his fifth five-set match at Roland Garros in just two years, seeing off Dusan Lajovic 6-4, 6-2, 4-6, 1-6, 6-2 to reach the fourth round. The German beat John Millman in a first-round decider, and also won three five-setters en route to the 2018 quarter-finals. "Somebody needs to tell me I don't necessarily need to play five sets every time I step on the court," said the fifth seed. Millenials can't concentrate World number one Novak Djokovic suggested that tennis needs to speed up to cater for the younger generation, who he says have a shorter generation span. "The Millennials, you know, require different kind... their attention span is shorter and it's different from generations before, so you have to adjust, I guess." Teen dreams American 17-year-old Amanda Anisimova reached the fourth round for the second straight Grand Slam tournament with a 7-6 (8/6), 6-4 victory over Romanian Irina Camelia Begu. Poland's Iga Swiatek, who only turned 18 on Friday, also progressed, coming back from being 'bagelled' in the opening set against Monica Puig to win 0-6, 6-3, 6-3. The 51st-ranked Anisimova faces Spanish world number 137 Aliona Bolsova in the last 16, while Swiatek takes on defending champion Simona Halep, with an all-teenage quarter-final still possible. Who's saying what "I hope in this life, but I don't know until I will finish tennis. I will keep working on that." Simona Halep on when she will be able to conduct her on-court interviews in French. "I would have expected to have gotten past the the third round. If someone said I would only get this far, I'd have said they were a liar." Serena Williams after her straight-sets loss to Sofia Kenin. "I'm close friends to him. And I never call him and say, I need help. I just -- if I need any advice, you know, I see him and I ask for advice. But I don't ask for the help, to be honest, just because I know there's so many thousands of people need help of him." Filip Krajinovic on Novak Djokovic after losing to Tsitsipas. "It would go from 1 to 10 and I'm like at a 100 right now. Yeah." Osaka on her "level of disappointment" after crashing out to 42-ranked Czech Siniakova. "I mean, I think it's obvious that it went big after long time now, since Australian Open. He contacted me, yeah, few days ago. Gave me his phone number. That's cool." Tsitsipas reveals that famous American YouTuber Casey Neistat, who has over 11 million subscribers, has contacted him about the Greek's own burgeoning channel.