Seven candidates for the leadership of Britain's governing Conservative Party made it through Thursday's first round of voting, with the eventual winner set to replace Theresa May as prime minister. Here is the timetable for the process to elect a new leader, for the outgoing May and the key dates ahead for the new PM on the road to Brexit: June 16: First live television debate. Ninety-minute programme on Channel 4. June 17: Candidates pitch to Conservative MPs in leadership hustings. June 18: Second ballot of MPs. Candidates with 32 or fewer votes eliminated. If threshold met by all candidates, contender with lowest number of votes eliminated. Afterwards, the remaining candidates take part in a BBC television debate. June 19: Third ballot scheduled. June 20: Fourth and fifth ballots scheduled. Party hopes to be down to the final two candidates, who then make their pitch to party members. June 20-21: May attends what is likely her final EU summit in Brussels. It will be focused on who holds the big jobs in the bloc's institutions for the next five years and the EU's strategic agenda for 2019-24. June 22: Leadership candidates take part in a hustings before Conservative party members in the central English city of Birmingham, the first of 16 such events taking place across Britain. June 28-29: May due to attend G20 summit in Osaka, Japan. July 2: Inaugural plenary session of the new European Parliament. Britain's newly elected MEPs take their seats, including 29 from the Brexit Party -- the biggest single party in the chamber. July 6-8: Postal ballots sent out to Conservative party members to choose a new leader. July 13: Third anniversary of May becoming prime minister. July 15: This week will see the final leadership hustings before Conservative party members, in London. July 22: The result of the leadership candidate will be announced this week. August 25-27: G7 summit in Biarritz, southwest France. New British prime minister due to attend. September 29-October 2: Conservative Party conference in Manchester, northwest England. The new party leader will address the annual gathering. October 17-18: EU summit in Brussels. British prime minister due to attend if UK is still in the bloc. October 31: Barring a third postponement or an earlier departure, Britain leaves the European Union.