Historic English club Bury became the first team to be expelled from the English Football League since Maidstone United in 1992 on Tuesday. Here AFP Sport picks out the most striking reactions to the expulsion of the two-time FA Cup winners: "I've obviously been living it as my mum's been secretary for 31 years. She resigned last week but still worked every hour that God sent to do the right thing for the football club. The heart of the town has been ripped apart. Now it's up to the Bury people -- myself included -- to try to put some heart back into a town that relied heavily on a football club." -- England women's football coach Phil Neville to the BBC "This is an action that was taken, that was done with much regret and I'm feeling devastated to be here talking to you." -- EFL Executive Chair Debbie Jevans "The board was flexible, it has met over 10 times, every board member has given up time with a desire to find solution. But we have duty of care to the 23 other clubs in League One and equally all of the clubs in the Championship and League Two." -- Jevans responding to criticism of her organisation in bringing the curtain down on Bury "If you thought you could not move this club forward in a positive way you should never have taken over because you've literally destroyed lives, because that's what this football club meant to so many fans." -- Bury captain Neil Danns to Talk Radio, slamming owner Steve Dale "It's like every story, you go to the game with your grandad, your mum, your dad, your brothers, it's such a community. It means so much to people." -- Dann on the Bury fans being like other football supporters "We threw the other three in on the table last night, the proof of funding was there. Why they couldn't give us that little bit more time to get one over the line, we don't know." -- Dave Giffard, chair of Forever Bury Supporters Club, criticising the EFL for not giving extra time to consider three other offers "What we would like to do is try and save this football club. If we have to restart as a phoenix club we would like to get hold of this ground. We have the support of the council." -- Giffard on ambitions to buy Bury's Gigg Lane ground "There will be a huge amount of anger and disbelief about how this happened. I have been in regular contact with the EFL and it is right that they closely review the processes at Bury to see if any lessons can be learned." -- British Sports Minister Nigel Adams. "We will continue to support all our members who have been impacted by the current situation, including former players, the remaining players who are contracted at the club and also those who were hoping to sign contracts." -- the Professional Footballers Association (PFA). "The process run by @EFL has failed fans of @buryfcofficial & may do the same to @OfficialBWFC?. Next week @CommonsCMS will discuss how we can review the role of the football authorities in this crisis & what new powers are needed to act against bad owners and directors of clubs." -- British lawmaker Damian Collins, lawmaker and Chair of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport select committee