US Open at a glance - Day four: Headlines + Osaka to meet Coco in third round + Nadal advances by walkover + Halep loses to US qualifier Townsend + Czech sixth seed Kvitova ousted + Kyrgios advances with ease Top results Rafael Nadal (ESP x2) bt Thanasi Kokkinakis (AUS) walkover Naomi Osaka (JPN x1) bt Magda Linette (POL) 6-2, 6-4 Coco Gauff (USA) bt Timea Babos (HUN) 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 Taylor Townsend (USA) bt Simona Halep (ROU x4) 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4) Andrea Petkovic (GER) bt Petra Kvitova (CZE x6) 6-4, 6-4 Sidelines Kobe's Legacy on display at US Open -- Former Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant, a five-time NBA champion and twice an Olympic gold medalist, unveiled a tennis-related book at the Kids area of the US Open grounds. Bryant is credited as creator on "Legacy and the Queen," the story of 12-year-old Legacy Petrin and her quest to win a tennis tournament to save an orphanage. Bryant dedicates the book to his four daughters, adding, "When you fiercely protect your passion, no one can ever steal your dreams." Bryant also watched a victory by top-seeded defending champion Naomi Osaka. Petkovic's belly and besties -- Germany's Andrea Petkovic showed her abdomen in a post-win celebration to make good a threat to mock her trainer if he kept staring at his abs in a mirror, then called out friends who cheered her to victory. "The strange people in the corner, those are my friends. It makes it so special I could win in front of them," she said. Asked about them later, Petkovic said, "I think they are already at the bar. I'm not sure I want to see them right now." Sweet Caroline loves New York -- Just as you can count on the song "Sweet Caroline" to be played when Danish 19th seed Caroline Wozniacki is playing at the US Open, you can tell she has a true affinity for New York, keeping an apartment year-round in the Big Apple. "I really enjoy the city," she said, listing her favorite neighborhoods as the Flatiron District -- "It's cool, there's a lot of good restaurants and stuff" -- the Upper Eastside and "if you want to check out some nice little restaurants and bars as well, I think the West Village is cool." Who's saying what "I just feel like this was a huge, monumental moment. It was a very defining moment for me to realize that I belong here." -- US qualifier Taylor Townsend after a stunning knockout of reigning Wimbledon champion Simona Halep "For me, it wasn't pressure. It was just like I really didn't want them to sit in the sun too long, honestly. That was the thing that was on my mind. I was, like, I don't really want to play a third set." -- Top-ranked defending US Open champion Naomi Osaka of Japan, who was thinking of her players' box guests, retired NBA legend Kobe Bryant and former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick "No, not yet. We will make it. It's fine. The budget is going up, so it's fine." -- US 20th seed Sofia Kenin, when asked if she had managed to find time to visit Tiffany's jewelry store in New York after reaching the third round, ensuring herself at least $163,000 in US Open prize money "For me it's still wild. The first round was the first time I actually had a chant, but today it was a lot louder and a little more consistent. I was thinking like maybe they feel like I'm Golden State in Game 7 or something. It's different because you're an individual player, so it's weird, I guess. Most of the time you hear the chants, it's for a whole team, not just for, like, me. So it was pretty cool." -- Coco Gauff on having fans chant her name during her victory in Louis Armstrong Stadium, which made her feel like a player on the club that has reached the past five NBA Finals