US Open at a glance - Day five: Headlines + Djokovic shrugs off heckling, shoulder concerns + Federer blasts Evans, bristles at schedule claims + Serena stays on course for record-equalling Slam + Aussie upstart De Minaur sends Nishikori packing + Medvedev to face qualifier Koepfer in last 16 Top results Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Denis Kudla (USA) 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 Roger Federer (SUI x3) bt Dan Evans (GBR) 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 Serena Williams (USA x8) bt Karolina Muchova (CZE) 6-3, 6-2 Ashleigh Barty (AUS x2) bt Maria Sakkari (GRE x30) 7-5, 6-3 Alex de Minaur (AUS) bt Kei Nishikori (JPN x7) 6-2, 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 Sidelines Third round immunity -- Johanna Konta maintained her perfect record in Grand Slam third-round matches, making it eight wins in as many tries with a 6-2, 6-3 rout of Chinese 33rd seed Zhang Shuai. No British woman has gone beyond the last 16 in New York since Jo Durie made it to the semi-finals in 1983. Battle of Odessa goes to Svitolina -- Elina Svitolina dished out a reality check to 19-year-old compatriot Dayana Yastremska with a 6-2, 6-0 thumping. The fifth seed needed just 54 minutes to brush aside the teenager, who like Svitolina was born in Odessa, a Ukrainian city on the Black Sea. Wang breaks new ground -- China's Wang Qiang booked her first-ever trip to the last 16 at a major. The 18th seed defeated Fiona Ferro 7-6 (7/1), 6-3, eliminating French interest in the women's draw in the process. Who's saying what "The Brits maybe need a bit of sun sometimes." -- Roger Federer suggests the reason his team chose the shady side of the court while Dan Evans' team had the sun. "I don't think there's necessarily any specific magic click or pill or anything." -- Johanna Konta can't offer any specific reason for seemingly saving her best for the big occasions this year "I definitely think it's the future of women's tennis. And I'm really excited to just be a fan girl and kind of watch." -- Count Serena Williams among those who will be tuning in for Saturday's third-round showdown between Naomi Osaka and Coco Gauff. "Coco is definitely a new superstar of tennis. It's great to see her fighting spirit, her intensity. She's only 15. She brings so much maturity in her game for such a young age. It's very impressive." -- Novak Djokovic adds to the praise for 15-year-old phenom Coco Gauff "I know that they have a match-up because everybody talking about it. I don't know. I don't really have any thoughts about it. It's going to be another third-round match for someone because it's a big match. I don't have really thoughts about it." -- Elina Svitolina doesn't quite share the same enthusiasm as Serena Williams or Novak Djokovic over the Naomi Osaka-Coco Gauff clash "Just super nauseous. Won't give you all of the gory details. But, yeah, wasn't feeling great." -- Madison Keys, who had her blood pressure taken during a straight-sets win over Sofia Kenin "I'll come find you after, trust me I'll come find you." -- Novak Djokovic to an apparent heckler as he practiced ahead of his third-round match