US golfer Bryson DeChambeau hit back Saturday at critics who took to social media to complain about his painfully slow pace of play. Fellow US PGA Tour players were among those weighing in after a video showed DeChambeau taking more than two minutes to make a putt. But the 25-year-old American defended himself after the third round of the Northern Trust in Jersey City, New Jersey. "Let's talk about slow play, guys," DeChambeau told reporters after concluding a third-round 71 that left him eight shots off the pace at Liberty National. "When people start talking to me about slow play and how I'm killing the game, I'm doing this and that to the game, that is complete and utter you-know-what. That's not fair." DeChambeau, who is known for an idiosyncratic approach that includes using clubs all cut to the same length and a mathematical approach to reading greens, said he felt he was "somehow being singled out." "It's really kind of unfortunate the way it's perceived because there's a lot of other guys that take a lot of time," DeChambeau said. DeChambeau has been criticized before for slow play, but said the videos that showed him taking more than two minutes to make a chip and a similar eternity lining up an eight-foot putt on Friday, were misleading, since his caddie had called him off one shot and on the other he was waiting for a group on a nearby tee to hit. Four-time major winner Brooks Koepka was among those criticizing DeChambeau. "It has just got out of hand," Koepka said. England's Eddie Pepperell, sympathizing with DeChambeau's playing partners, tweeted: "Slow players do this to their partners, making the game less enjoyable. "Problem is, the unaffected single-minded twit in this instance doesn't care much for others." Ian Poulter felt sorry for a fan who said he had stopped watching golf due to the slow pace. "There are a few players that continually disrespect their fellow pros and continue to break the rules without a conscience," Poulter tweeted. - 'Speak to my face' - Former world number one Luke Donald called on the PGA Tour to do something to stop the speed bump for the sake of all players frustrated by the situation. "Slow play in golf isn't anything new -- but nowadays with social media, TV etc it's just being exposed to a new level. This seems like the perfect time to do something about it! C'mon people it's 2019, let's figure this out!" he tweeted. DeChambeau said that none of his Twitter critics had spoken to him personally. "We are all trying to do our best to play well and make our livelihoods and win tournaments, right," DeChambeau said. "But when you start attacking people on Twitter, it's like, come on, dude. Let's have some more balls to come and speak to my face about that."