Althea Gibson, the first black tennis player to win a Grand Slam title, was honored Monday with a statue unveiled on the grounds of the US Open. Gibson, who died in 2003 at age 76, won five Grand Slam singles titles and six Grand Slam doubles crowns, her historic breakthrough coming at the 1956 French Championships. At a time when racism was widespread, Gibson persevered on and off the court, winning the 1957 and 1958 Wimbledon and US Open singles titles. "What people have to understand is how she persevered and what she means not just to our sport, to all society, to everyone," US tennis legend Billie Jean King said Monday. Gibson paved the way for such African-American stars as Arthur Ashe and Serena and Venus Williams. "It wasn't easy to be African American in the '50s. It was impossible to do that and she did it and was a champion. I can't even imagine what she went through," Venus Williams said. "She went through it so I didn't have to. What she achieved, that statue is the beginning of what we should be doing for Althea." England's Angela Buxton, 85, was Gibson's women's doubles partner in 1956 French and Wimbledon title runs but gave a sobering assessment of the artwork. "You want an honest opinion? Well, it doesn't resemble her at all," Buxton said. "Sorry to say that. I would have passed her any day and not know who it was. "But the main thing is not the statue. It's what I learned from her and what I enjoyed with her. That's the main thing." Gibson's courage also helped inspire King, a 12-time Grand Slam singles champion who is now 75, to become a historic champion for women's rights. "She totally inspired me," King said. "I knew if Althea had gone through what she had gone through and changed the world, that I had a chance to follow in her footsteps and help change the next generations. "Althea is a very strong reminder that it's important to the living people right now that we carry on her legacy and the legacy of equality." The tribute comes as incidents involving white supremacists are growing in the United States. "Every generation has to continue the process and the fight to keep freedom available, to get rid of sexism and racism," King said. "Right now I think we have a lot of racism." - Gibson's fight goes on - Venus Williams said the equality Gibson fought for remains elusive. "I don't think anyone really understands what it was like in those days," she said. "We came here for freedom and it was unfortunate that many people were not given that. Because of Althea, people fighting for it, we've gotten a lot closer to it." King called the tribute overdue and said women still have great strides to make in society to achieve equality with men. "A lot of us have waited for a long time for today to happen," King said. "It takes effort to get things organized. It takes a huge effort. "Being a woman? We're still second-class citizens, and she's African-American, so just go down the totem pole some more. "As women, we do not get the same respect. We do not. We still do not. We're always second. I can go through every day of my life and people don't notice it, but it's just there. And if you're a person of color, I can't imagine what you go through each day. "Just a woman it's frustrating. It's exhausting. We can talk about what didn't happen, but what has happened is what's important and we finally have gotten over the finish line."