Tommy Pham crushed a two-run homer and Austin Meadows blasted a solo home run as the Tampa Bay Rays clinched the American League wild card spot with a 6-2 win over the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday. The Cleveland Indians also lost Friday to the Washington Nationals, allowing the Rays to punch their ticket to the playoffs. The Oakland A's sealed an AL wild card thanks to Cleveland's loss. The Rays are going to the playoffs for the first time in six years. "This organization has created a very winning culture, and there's been a little bit of a drought," said Rays catcher Kevin Cash. "We get to hang another banner, we want to hang some more. I am really happy to be a part of it." Tampa Bay will play Oakland on the wild-card game Wednesday night. The Rays will start Charlie Morton. "This is a small step in the right direction," Pham said. "Oakland is a tough team. We have to get through them first. We're going to probably have to get through Houston next. It's a long road ahead of us, but it's a step in the right direction." Tampa Bay right-hander Tyler Glasnow did not allow a hit and walked two while striking out four in 4 1/3 scoreless innings. Glasnow was making just his fourth start since returning from a four-month absence due to an arm injury. Oliver Drake allowed one run in two innings to earn the win. Emilio Pagan pitched a perfect bottom of the ninth. Teoscar Hernandez hit a two-run homer for the hosts Blue Jays who dropped to 65-95 on the season. Blue Jays starter T.J. Zeuch allowed three runs, four hits and struck out four in five innings. Elsewhere, Charlie Blackmon, Raimel Tapia and Ryan McMahon each hit home runs as the Colorado Rockies beat the Milwaukee Brewers 11-7 in Denver. The loss snapped the Brewers' winning streak at seven games and cooled off their run at a second consecutive National League Central Division title. Milwaukee dropped to 89-71 on the season and trail first-place St. Louis by one game after the Cardinals were hammered by the Chicago Cubs 8-2 on Friday. Colorado put the game away with a seven-run sixth inning that featured a leadoff homer from Blackmon and a pinch-hit grand slam from Tapia. Keston Hiura had four hits for the Brewers, who played most of the night without Ryan Braun. The star outfielder left the contest in the middle of the second inning with an injury after putting Milwaukee ahead 1-0 with a single in the first. Braun hurt his left calf and will be checked by team doctors on Saturday. Gerardo Parra had three hits, including a home run, and drove in four runs as the Nationals defeated Cleveland 8-2, and the Indians were eliminated from playoff contention shortly after the defeat.