West Indies lost key batsman Darren Bravo to concussion as well as two wickets as they reached 145 for four at lunch on the fourth day of the second and final Test against India on Monday. Trailing in the series after losing the first Test in Antigua by 318 runs a week earlier, the home side are facing a daunting victory target of 468 at  Sabina Park in Jamaica. They must do so without their most experienced batsman. Resuming his innings this morning in partnership with Shamarh Brooks, Bravo appeared to be feeling unwell after 15 minutes' play. Bravo was struck on the back of the helmet by fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah during the final over of the third day's play. He continued batting for the remaining three deliveries of the day after receiving treatment. On Monday, he again received attention. This time he was led off the field. Jamaican batsman Jermaine Blackwood was picked to take Bravo's place in the team under the new concussion protocol. Australian Marnus Labuschagne was the first concussion replacement in the history of the game last month when he replaced Steve Smith during the second innings of the second Test against England at Lord's after Smith was struck on the neck by fast bowler Jofra Archer. Blackwood was called into duty within minutes, when Shimron Hetmyer fell to yet another poor shot, caught at extra-cover to give fast bowler Ishant Sharma his second wicket of the innings. He has since lived a charmed life in getting to 33 off 42 balls, offering a succession of chances while entertaining the few fans at the ground in striking four fours and one six. Blackwood has dominated a 47-run partnership with Brooks, who resumes in the afternoon session on 36 off 84 balls. He also had his moment of good fortune when taken at slip off Ravindra Jadeja, only for the dismissal to be overturned when it was detected that the left-arm spinner had delivered a no-ball. Roston Chase was the first wicket to fall in the day after coming to the crease to replace Bravo, being trapped leg-before by Jadeja.