US Open at a glance - day 11: Headlines + Serena Williams cruises into final + Serena ties Evert's record 101 wins + Teen Andreescu edges Bencic in semi + Jamie Murray doubles double bid ends + Barty-Azarenka advance to final Results Serena Williams (USA x8) bt Elina Svitolina (UKR x5) 6-3, 6-1 Bianca Andreescu (CAN x15) bt Belinda Bencic (SUI x13) 7-6 (7/3), 7-5 Marcel Granollers/Horacio Zeballos (ESP/ARG x8) bt Kevin Krawietz/Andreas Miles (GER x12) 7-6 (7/2), 7-6 (7/5) Juan Sebastian Cabal/Robert Farah (COL x1) bt Jamie Murray/Neal Skupski (GBR x15) 7-6 (7/5), 7-6 (10/8) Victoria Azarenka-Ashleigh Barty (BLR/AUS x8) bt Viktoria Kuzmova-Aliaksandra Sasnovich (SVK/BLR) 6-0, 6-1 Sidelines Murray's double doubles hopes foiled -- Britain's Jamie Murray saw his bid for a US Open doubles double ended on Thursday when he and British partner Neal Skupski were beaten by Colombian top seeds Juan Sebastian Cabal and Robert Farah 7-6 (7/5), 7-6 (10/8) in a men's doubles semi-final. England's Skupski netted an overhead smash on the final point to send the reigning Wimbledon champions from South America into the final against Spain's Marcel Granollers and Argentina's Horacio Zeballos. Murray, who won the 2016 US Open men's title with Bruno Soares, will play for his third consecutive US Open mixed doubles title in Saturday's final. The Scotsman will join American Bethanie Mattek-Sands to face top seeds Michael Venus of New Zealand and Chan Hao-Ching of Taiwan. Murray teamed with Mattek-Sands to win last year's US Open mixed crown after taking the 2017 title alongside Martina Hingis. The mixed doubles champions take home a total of $160,000 while the runner-up duo gets $76,000. Osaka, Schwartzman get sportsmanship award -- Top-ranked 2018 US Open champion Naomi Osaka of Japan and Argentine quarter-finalist Diego Schwartzman were named winners of the US Open Sportsmanship Awards by the US Tennis Association on Thursday. The award pays tribute to demonstrated excellence in sportsmanship in the Open and most of its North American tuneup events. Each received a trophy and a $5,000 donation to the charity of their choice. Schwartzman was ousted Wednesday by Rafael Nadal while Osaka fell to Belinda Bencic in the fourth round. Barty-Azarenka advance to final -- Australia's Ashleigh Barty and Victoria Azarenka of Belarus rolled into Sunday's US Open women's doubles finals by routing Slovakia's Viktoria Kuzmova and Aliaksandra Sasnovich of Belarus 6-0, 6-1 in 56 minutes on Thursday. Azarenka and Barty, who won last year's US Open women's doubles title with American CoCo Vandeweghe, will play for the title against either Belgium's Elise Mertens and Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus or American Vania King and Caroline Dolehide. "For me it's going to be my first Grand Slam final as a mom so it's going to be extra special," Azarenka said. "It was pretty impressive from Vika. I don't think she missed a ball the whole match," said Barty, who will return to the world number one singles ranking on Monday. Who's saying what "It's impressive. To be in any club with Chrissie is awesome." -- Serena Williams, who matched Chris Evert for the US Open all-time match win record by capturing her 101st with a semi-final rout of Ukraine's Elina Svitolina. "It's really good to be in yet another final. It seems honestly crazy. But I don't really expect too much less." -- Serena Williams after qualifying for her 10th US Open final. She will face Bianca Andreescu on Saturday in search of a record-tying 24th Grand Slam title and record seventh US Open crown. "It's a dream come true playing Serena in the finals of the US Open. It's crazy. It's crazy." -- Bianca Andreescu, a 19-year-old Canadian who beat Belinda Bencic to reach her first Grand Slam final. "You are playing in front of the best tennis player in the world. If you don't take it, she just grabs it and there's no chance to take it back." -- Ukraine's fifth-seeded Elina Svitolina, who tested Serena Williams early but failed to convert three break points in the opening game and three more in the fifth. "We're going to party." "I'm going to bed but she can go out and party by herself." "We're going to party." -- Celebration-bound Victoria Azarenka speaking around the happy-to-stay-in Ashleigh Barty after they advanced to the US Open women's final.