US Open at a glance - day 10: Headlines + Nadal battles his way into semi-finals + Berrettini edges Monfils in five + 1st Italian man in semis since 1977 + Andreescu rallies past Mertens + Bencic reaches first Slam semi Results Rafael Nadal (ESP x2) bt Diego Schwartzman (ARG x20) 6-4, 7-5, 6-2 Matteo Berrettini (ITA x24) bt Gael Monfils (FRA x13) 3-6, 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 7-6 (7/5) Bianca Andreescu (CAN x15) bt Elise Mertens (BEL x25) 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 Belinda Bencic (SUI x13) bt Donna Vekic (CRO x23) 7-6 (7/5), 6-3 Sidelines Murray making double doubles bid -- Britain's Jamie Murray extended his bid for a US Open doubles double after he and compatriot Neal Skupski rallied to defeat Americans Jack Sock and Jackson Withrow 4-6, 6-1, 7-6 (7/4) to reach the men's semi-finals. Murray also partnered in mixed doubles with American Bethanie Mattek-Sands and they trounced third seeds Samantha Stosur of Australia and Rajeev Ram of the United States 6-3, 6-1 to reach the final. Sister act as mixed doubles foes -- Taiwan sisters Latisha Chan and Chan Hao-Ching were opponents in a US Open mixed doubles semi-final. Latisha and Croatia's Ivan Dodig, the fourth seeds, faced top seeds Hao-Ching and New Zealander Michael Venus in the last match at Louis Armstrong Stadium. Hao-Ching and Venus took a hard-fought 7-6 (8/6), 7-5 triumph. Go forward isn't what it sounds like -- Latvia's Jelena Ostapenko was arguing a coaching code violation issued to her and Ukrainian partner Lyudmyla Kichenok in their doubles quarter-final. Down a set and a break to Americans Vania King and Caroline Dolehide, umpire Marijana Veljovic imposed the violation and Ostapenko, the 2017 French Open singles champion, protested that the exhortation she received meaning "Go forward" was more encouragement than instruction. "It's not normal," Ostapenko protested. "I didn't even look at them. I didn't even hear what they said." It was to no avail. Her duo got the violation and lost the match. King, Casals unveil Original 9 plaque -- Billie Jean King and Rosie Casals, members of the "Original 9" who began women's professional tennis, unveiled sidewalk plaques paying tribute to the women's pro tour pioneers. Next year marks the 50th anniversary of the "Original 9" players signing $1 contracts with Gladys Heldman, the birth of what has grown into the WTA Tour. Who's saying what "I think when I was playing it was one of the best matches I ever saw. I was playing but I was watching also." -- Italy's Matteo Berrettini after outlasting France's Gael Monfils to reach the US Open semi-finals, the first Italian so deep in New York since Corrado Barazzutti in 1977 "To me, this match was he won with heart and head, HH, Double H." -- Vincenzo Santopadre, Berrettini's coach, on the key factors in his win "I think the key today was I served very poorly. My serve was very off, a lot of double faults. Not at all first serve. I was battling with that and with my opponent. So it was tough." -- France's Gael Monfils after firing 17 double faults, two in the decisive fifth-set tie-breaker "I said, Is this real life? Twice. I couldn't really believe it at that moment. But then when I sat down, I just couldn't stop smiling." -- Canadian 19-year-old Bianca Andreescu, who was stunned when she beat Belgium's Elise Mertens to reach her first Grand Slam semi-final, then smiling in her seat when it soaked in "I achieved the four semi-finals of the four Grand Slams this year, and that's a lot. Very, very happy for that." -- Rafael Nadal on his season, which saw him win the French Open for his 18th career Grand Slam title and finish runner-up in the Australian Open as well as go out in the Wimbledon semi-finals