US Open at a glance - day seven: Headlines + Wawrinka advances as injured Djokovic quits + Express Federer drops just four games + Serena stays on course despite ankle scare + Wild Barty derailed by China's Wang + Konta outlasts former finalist Pliskova Top results Stan Wawrinka (SUI x23) bt Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) 6-4, 7-5, 2-1, retired Roger Federer (SUI x3) bt David Goffin (BEL x15) 6-2, 6-2, 6-0 Serena Williams (USA x8) bt Petra Martic (CRO x22) 6-3, 6-4 Wang Qiang (CHN x18) bt Ashleigh Barty (AUS x2) 6-2, 6-4 Johanna Konta (GBR x16) bt Karolina Pliskova (CZE x3) 6-7 (1/7), 6-3, 7-5 Sidelines Backstreet's back and so is Grigor -- Grigor Dimitrov, plagued by injury this season, qualified for his first Grand Slam quarter-final since the 2018 Australian Open after a straight-sets defeat of Australian Alex de Minaur. The Bulgarian then revealed his fondness for the Backstreet Boys, having recently uploaded footage of him singing along at concert. "Every night I'm vibing to those guys. It's great I love music, I love being in a great atmopshere. Let's keep the song going," he said following his win on Court 4. In good company -- Elina Svitolina and Johanna Konta bumped the number of active women's players to have reached quarter-finals of all four Grand Slams to 15. Fifth seed Svitolina's best Slam performance came during her run to Wimbledon semi-finals in July, while Konta has made the last four everywhere but in New York Century beckons for Serena -- Serena Williams is one victory shy of 100 at the US Open after brushing Petra Martic aside 6-3, 6-4. The American is chasing a seventh Flushing Meadows crown and only trails Chris Evert (101) for most wins at the year's final Grand Slam Who's saying what "I think that's my coach's homework. I just want to enjoy for now." -- Wang Qiang leaves the gameplan for her clash with Serena Williams to her coach, Thomas Drouet "She's a little bit loud and obnoxious right now, so I'm not sure (smiling) she should come to the matches." -- Serena Williams says her daughter Olympia, who turned two on Sunday, isn't quite ready to attend her matches in person "I like playing on everything. I like playing on grass. Only the second year I have played on it. I grew up on clay. I played a lot on carpet. Unfortunately there is no carpet on the pro tour." - German qualifier Dominik Koepfer, whose run ended in the fourth round "I was an idiot, to be honest. I did some things that I'm not proud of and that I'm working on to be a better person on the court because I do think I'm a good person out of the court. -- Daniil Medvedev does some soul-searching after playing the role of US Open villain "Do I regret? No. Would I do it again tomorrow if it's necessary? Yes." -- Patrick Mouratoglou isn't losing sleep over the on-court coaching that sparked chaos during the 2018 final "The pain was constant for weeks now. Some days higher; some days with less intensity and obviously taking different stuff to kill the pain instantly. Sometimes it works; sometimes it doesn't. -- Novak Djokovic, after a persistent shoulder injury forced him to quit against Stan Wawrinka