US Open at a glance - Day six: Headlines + Osaka beats Gauff, then they cry + Nadal cruises into last 16 + Kyrgios ousted by Rublev + US qualifier Townsend, wildcard Ahn into last 16 + Teen Andreescu ousts Wozniacki Top results Naomi Osaka (JPN x1) bt Coco Gauff (USA) 6-3, 6-0 Rafael Nadal (ESP x2) bt Chung Hyeon (KOR) 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 Taylor Townsend (USA) bt Sorana Cirstea (ROU) 7-5, 6-2 Andrey Rublev (RUS) bt Nick Kyrgios (AUS x28) 7-6 (7/5), 7-6 (7/5), 6-3 Bianca Andreescu (CAN x15) bt Caroline Wozniacki (DEN x19) 6-4, 6-4 Sidelines Longshot Ahn enjoys success -- Kristie Ahn has snuck under the radar at the US Open, the 27-year-old American wildcard of Korean heritage overshadowed by attention to Coco Gauff and Taylor Townsend. But Ahn has enjoyed great success, taking her first two Grand Slam wins even as a 141st-ranked longshot in her quarter of the draw, which lost Simona Halep and Petra Kvitova. After beating Svetlana Kuznetsova and Anna Kalinskaya, Ahn beat Latvia's Jelena Ostapenko, the 2017 French Open champion, on Saturday. She gets Belgian 25th seed Elise Mertens in the fourth round. Nadal's purple reign -- Rafael Nadal was wearing a purple jacket after his victory over South Korea's Chung Hyeon when an announcer remarked purple was the color of royalty and he was the King of Clay for his 12 French Open titles. Could he be the King of New York also? "I'm not king for nowhere," Nadal said. "I just like this color." After joking how he spent many hours selecting it, Nadal admitted he chose the colors with apparel maker Nike many months earlier and didn't even recall his selection before seeing it. Chung out but unharmed -- South Korean 170th-ranked qualifier Chung Hyeon, nagged by foot and back injuries and out for six months, was ousted by 18-time Grand Slam champion Rafael Nadal of Spain. "I'm really happy to finish the tournament without any injury. That's good news for me," says Chung, who figures his injury woes are solved. Now he can ponder the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, saying, "If I have a chance to play Olympics, for sure I want to play." Popyrin sent packing -- Alexei Popyrin, a 20-year-old Australian born in Sydney to Russian parents, lost 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (3/7), 7-6 (7/2) to Italian 24th seed Matteo Berrettini, smashing his racket after sending a forehand wide on match point. "We did a great fight. He's impressive," Berrettini said. Pals with "Pop on Top" T-shirts cheered him on court 17. Popyrin matched his best Grand Slam run from this year's Australian Open by reaching the third round. Townsend, Ahn hit a unique double -- Qualifier Taylor Townsend and wildcard Kristie Ahn won to reach the fourth round, giving the United States a rare double, the first duo of a wildcard and qualifier into the last 16 since wildcard record-keeping began in 1987. They are the ninth and 10th different US women to make the fourth round at a Grand Slam this year. Who's saying what "I said no because I knew I was going to cry the whole time." -- Coco Gauff, the 15-year-old US sensation, who was coaxed into talking in the on-court interview with the woman who beat her, top-ranked defending champion Naomi Osaka "This is the most focused I've been since Australia. Sorry for playing you in this mentality." -- Osaka to Gauff, nearly apologetic for her dominating victory "My dad just loved birds and I love animals. I love every kind of animal. Four dogs all adopted. So please adopt, don't buy. I love all animals." -- Belgian 25th seed Elise Mertens, who has several dogs, a pheasant and peacocks "I'm going to take it as far as I can. I'm here now. Im going to make it count. We're going to ride this thing all the way." -- US qualifier Taylor Townsend, enjoying her deepest Grand Slam run after beating Romanian Sorana Cirstea to reach the fourth round "That was actually the first time we met face to face. I told her congrats on all the success. Keep killing it. NextGen is here." -- Canadian teen Bianca Andreescu on her first meeting with US 15-year-old sensation Coco Gauff while both were practicing ahead of Saturday matches "I don't eat cheese. I never eat cheese in all my life. I don't like. The meat, I eat meat when I want to eat meat. I have nothing against the meat. I prefer fish. That's all." -- Rafael Nadal explaining some of his dietary decision-making.