Nathan Chen delivered a flawless and flamboyant short programme on Thursday at the ISU Grand Prix Final in Turin to leave his great rival Yuzuru Hanyu a distant second. Earlier, China's two-time world champions Sui Wenjing and Han Cong backed up their billing as title favourites by taking the lead after the pairs short programme. Chen, winner of the competition the last two years,  was smooth and relaxed skating to La Boheme by Charles Aznavour. He nailed his three jumps, the last scored a bonus because it came in the second half of the programme. His total of 110.38 was a personal best, a best on the circuit this season and only 0.15 points short of Hanyu's world record for a short programme set in Moscow in 2018. Double Olympic champion Hanyu matched Chen for fluid and expressive style but missed the triple toe element at the end of a combination jump. The error was costly and the adoring fans who had pelted the ice with Winnie the Pooh toys fell silent, or even started to cry, as 97.43 came up for the Japanese star. That was still good enough for second place on a night when most of the six finalists struggled for their best form. Hanyu is bidding to become the first figure skater to win Grand Prix Final gold five times. Hanyu, who turns 25 this week, returns to the six-skater elite event after a two-year absence. He won four consecutive Grand Prix Final titles between 2013 and 2016. A fifth would see him overtake Russian greats Yevgeny Plushenko and Irina Slutskaya. The big surprise of the evening was sixth-ranked skater Kevin Aymoz  who took third with a personal best of 96.71 despite a technical glitch at the start of his routine. The Frenchman opened the proceedings but made a false start as the sound system hit the wrong note. As the music began, Aymoz took a couple of steps only to realise they weren't playing his tune. After a painful delay, as Aymoz stood waiting at centre ice, Prince's 'The Question of U' started and he set off. He was clearly unfazed quickly landing a quad toe and nailing his other jump elements before showing some tricky footwork to score a personal best by two points. Chinese star Jin Boyang went sliding on his first jump, a difficult potentially high-scoring combination losing almost 15 points, and even though he fought back ended up with 80.67. A couple of wobbles and a touch of nervousness in the jumps cost Russian Dmitri Aliev who scored 88.78. Chen went next and was followed by the second Russian, Alexander Samarin who seemed to be skating on thicker ice, putting a hand on the down on his first jump and under-rotating on another, to score just 81.32. In the pairs, Sui and Han, gold medallists at the 2017 and 2019 world championships, scored 77.50 points to head a trio of young Russian pairs at the Palavela. Skate Canada and Cup of Russia winners Aleksandra Boikova and Dmitrii Kozlovskii are second on 76.65 with Daria Pavliuchenkova and Denis Khodykin third on 75.16. Anastasia Mishina and Aleksandr Galliamov are fourth (71.48) ahead of China's Peng Cheng and Jin Yang (69.67) while Canadian duo Kirsten Moore-Towers and Michael Marinaro (67.09) are last going into Saturday's free skate.