Wimbledon at a glance - Day 11: Headlines + Federer beats Nadal in four sets to make 12th Wimbledon final + Djokovic into sixth final at All England Club + World number one leads Federer 25-22 in career clashes Top results Men semi-finals Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Roberto Bautista Agut (ESP x23) 6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 Roger Federer (SUI x2) bt Rafael Nadal (ESP x3) 7-6 (7/3), 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 Who's saying what "It's definitely going to go down as one of my favourite matches to look back at because it's Rafa, it's at Wimbledon, the crowd was into it." -- Roger Federer after his win over Nadal. "It's sad because for me I know chances are not forever." -- Rafael Nadal after his loss to Federer in their 40th meeting "I do eat plant-based for quite a few years already. But because of the misinterpretations of labels and misuse of labels, I just don't like that kind of name. I do eat plant-based. I think that's one of the reasons why I recover well." -- Novak Djokovic on slogans 'Novak Djokovic is a vegan' which have been daubed around the neighbourhood of Wimbledon. "We had everything reserved from Wednesday until Sunday. They spent Wednesday in Ibiza. They came to watch a good match, the semi-final of Wimbledon. Maybe tomorrow we go back." -- Roberto Bautista Agut on his ever-changing plans for his stag party which will now go back to Ibiza despite his six fellow revellers having made their way to London. "At some stage you fall off your perch and they think they shouldn't be employing a dead man." -- Tournament referee Andrew Jarrett who is stepping down after 14 years in the position "Best moment? The moments immediate prior to the two singles finals and I am in the extremely privileged position of escorting a young boy or girl out for the coin toss. I am standing in the middle of Centre Court, looking around at the scene and thinking that I am a very lucky man." -- Jarrett on his most enjoyable moments Royal box watch -- On men's singles semi-finals day, Jude Law, Hugh Grant and Damian Lewis enjoyed the comfy chairs as did Alex Ferguson, Gary Player and Nick Faldo. Former Wimbledon champions Rod Laver, Manuel Santana,Pat Cash and Michael Stich were also enjoying the delights of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic.