Rory McIlroy endured a disastrous day in front of his home fans as the British Open returned to Northern Ireland after a 68-year absence on Thursday, while Tiger Woods is also facing a battle to make the cut. Here, AFP Sport takes a look at some of the best quotes from the first round of the 148th Open at Royal Portrush: "I guess when you play your first and last holes in a combined seven over par you are starting on the back foot." -- McIlroy tries to see the lighter side after carding an eight-over 79, including a first-hole quadruple-bogey. "Best I could do was 7-over." -- Woods was understandably not happy with his game following a first-round 78. "It's the British Open, it's in Ireland. I feel like I'm hitting it well. Of course I feel uneasy." -- Shane Lowry on his first-tee nerves after shooting a 67 to sit in second place behind JB Holmes. "I don't have much to say about that, I feel for him. Obviously he's one of the best golfers in the world." -- Lowry on McIlroy's first-hole problems. "Rory summed it up perfectly: The Open wasn't about him; it was about how far our country has come. How far it's moved forward. "The economic benefits of what this tournament is going to bring, not just this week, but the legacy going forward, what it's going to bring to the country." -- Northern Ireland's 2011 winner Darren Clarke. "I was going to hit iron (on the first tee). I told Darren (Clarke) that, but I won't tell you what he said to me." -- Irish amateur James Sugrue. "Honestly, I stood here starting this week figuring I am playing really well and (if) some things happen I could make top 20. Obviously I'll be in the last place." -- David Duval after carding a 20-over 91, featuring a 14 on the par-five seventh hole. "I might take my fiancee to the Causeway, I think. We'll see how it goes. Or I could be on the sofa with a cup of tea and pack of biscuits." -- Andrew 'Beef' Johnston has a decision to make. "I'd like to say no one knows me anyway, so it's fine. I'm not bothered like the big boys. So, yeah, just go about my life and do what I want to do." -- Tyrrell Hatton, who shot a three-under 68, on being able to see the local sights while going relatively unrecognised. "It's easy to focus on the bad day that he's had, but at the end of the day, it's Rory McIlroy. You don't know what he could do next." -- Tommy Fleetwood thinks McIlroy could still bounce back. "But just being a friend of his and knowing how much it meant to him, I certainly felt for him on the start." -- Three-time major champion Jordan Spieth expresses his sympathies for McIlroy.