Wimbledon at a glance - day nine: - Headlines - + Federer v Nadal in semis + Nadal sinks Querrey in quarter-finals + Federer beats Nishikori for 100th Wimbledon win + Djokovic into ninth Wimbledon semi-final + Champion faces Bautista Agut next + Murray/Serena dream team out - Top results - Roger Federer (SUI x2) bt Kei Nishikori (JPN x8) 4-6, 6-1, 6-4, 6-4 Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt David Goffin (BEL x21) 6-4, 6-0, 6-2 Rafael Nadal (ESP x3) bt Sam Querrey (USA) 7-5, 6-2, 6-2 Roberto Bautista Agut (ESP x23) bt Guido Pella (ARG x26) 7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 Bruno Soares/Nicole Melichar (BRA/USA x1) bt Andy Murray/Serena Williams (GBR/USA) 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 - Sidelines - Bagel alert -- In the second set against David Goffin, Novak Djokovic became the first man to win a set 6-0 in the quarters, semis or finals at Wimbledon since 2006 when Roger Federer gave Rafael Nadal handed a bagel in the final. Not exactly busting a gut -- Roberto Bautista Agut spent just six hours and 48 minutes on court to reach the quarter-finals, one minute more than Roger Federer. The Spaniard's opponent Guido Pella had spent 12 hours, 47 minutes getting through the first four rounds. Damn good contest -- Wimbledon has had its heroes and villains but there was a Damm-Baadi out on Court 14 -- in the boys' singles, as US fourth seed Martin Damm beat Taha Baadi of Canada 6-2, 6-3. Uncharted territory -- Andy Murray and Serena Williams got a rare trip out to Court Two, a 4,000-seater sunken bowl. The mixed doubles pair were cheered as they were escorted through the public to the court. With nine Wimbledon singles titles between them, they are almost never off the much bigger Centre Court and Court One. Smile for the camera -- Older sister Venus Williams was in the crowd, falling about laughing as she tried to take a selfie between points. So much work for so little reward -- Henri Kontinen and John Peers played a five-set second round match, then won Wimbledon's first 12-12 final set tie-break on Tuesday -- but there was no rest for the Finnish-Australian men's doubles pairing on Wednesday as they played a third straight five-set match -- and lost. Two dozen Wimbledon got its second-ever 12-12 tie-break -- this time in the mixed doubles. Artem Sitak and Laura Sigemund beat third seeds Mate Pavic and Gabriela Dabrowski 5-7 7-6 (7/5), 13-12 (7/5). - Who's saying what - "I had planned to be in Ibiza right now. We had everything organised already. My friends, six of them, are all there. Well, it feels better to be here in London." -- Spain's Roberto Bautista Agut on reaching the Wimbledon semi-finals "My thing is just to stay focused and not look like I'm daydreaming." -- Serena Williams on sitting through an Andy Murray press conference "We don't usually celebrate after losing." -- Murray on whether he and Williams plan to toast their partnership "Even if you play well, it's not enough." -- David Goffin on facing Novak Djokovic "They're beautiful. I actually like the early hours of the day before the public and the crowd comes in." -- Novak Djokovic on taking time to admire the Wimbledon flowers - Royal Box watch - Centre Court's posh seats were dominated by royalty and tennis veterans, with a sprinkling of singers and a supermodel. The royalty was led by Prince Albert II of Monaco; Queen Elizabeth II's daughters-in-law, Prince Charles's wife Camilla and Prince Edward's wife Sophie; and the monarch's first cousin the Duke of Kent, who is president of the All England Club. The tennis veterans invited into the box were Vijay Amritraj, Mansour Bahrami, Paul Haarhuis, Tommy Haas, Rod Laver, Henri Leconte, Manuel Santana and Mark Woodforde. Singers Shirley Bassey and Elaine Paige were joined by 1960s supermodel Twiggy and British finance minister Philip Hammond.