Irishman Shane Lowry grabbed the headlines with a magnificent 63 on Saturday to take a four-shot lead ahead of the final round of the British Open. Here, AFP Sport takes a look at the best quotes from the third round: "Same thing as any other person my age. Just chill out, like do nothing. Lie back on the couch and watch TV. There's not much else on TV. So, yeah." -- Lowry isn't planning on a night of too much action before the final round. "Put it this way, it will be a very, very good effort if it's me, and if it's not me or Shane, it will be a very, very good effort for somebody else." -- Second-placed Tommy Fleetwood on his chances of chasing down Lowry. "The last time Shane had the lead at Oakmont we saw that." -- Brooks Koepka, who is seven shots off the pace, is hoping for a repeat of when Lowry blew a four-shot lead at the 2016 US Open. "I feel like I'm a different person. I don't think I'm a much different golfer, but I feel like I'm a different person now. I think that's what will help me tomorrow." -- Lowry think he is better prepared than three years ago at Oakmont. "Who knows what to expect tomorrow. The weather has been somewhat unpredictable this week. And we'll have to wait and see tomorrow." -- Justin Rose -- also seven shots behind Lowry on nine-under -- is preparing for some inclement weather on Sunday. "The R&A, they pissed me off because they attempted to ruin my image by not keeping this matter private. This is me coming out and treating them the exact way they treated me." -- Xander Schauffele hits back at the R&A after falling foul of the tournament organisers' driver testing. "To me it's kind of a non-issue. I'm not really sure why he decided to make such an issue about it. I know it hit his caddie's mom's hands off the bounce, and that's unfortunate." -- American Kyle Stanley after second-round playing partner Robert MacIntyre complained he hadn't shouted "fore" when his ball hit the mother of the Scot's caddie. "I put too much pressure on me, especially the first day. But it's understandable." -- Francesco Molinari on his tame title defence. "Shane, as I know him, he'll probably drink a few coffees. He's a big fan of a latte or three." -- Graeme McDowell on how he thought his friend and overnight leader Lowry would prepare for the third round. Whatever he did, he will probably repeat the routine on Sunday. "It's pretty surreal. I didn't realise it was there. But I can hear the deep voice now. Francesco Molinari." -- Club professional Gary McNeill on how it felt speaking to journalists in the mixed zone at the same time as Molinari after playing the third round as a marker. "I took advantage. I had a good lie to hack it out by the green. And fortunate to flop that in." -- Tony Finau's downplays the incredible flop shot he holed for birdie on the 18th to reach seven-under. "Boy, Lowry and Fleetwood are playing some golf." -- Former England football striker Gary Lineker on Twitter.