Wimbledon at a glance -- day seven: - Headlines - + Gauff's teen dream over + Federer into record 17th Wimbledon QF + 99th win at tournament for Federer + No.1 Barty, Pliskova, Kvitova out + Djokovic, Nadal cruise through + Serena, Halep reach last eight - Top results - Simona Halep (ROU x7) bt Cori Gauff (USA) 6-3, 6-3 Alison Riske (USA) bt Ashleigh Barty (AUS x1) 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 Roger Federer (SUI x2) bt Matteo Berrettini (ITA x17) 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Ugo Humbert (FRA) 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 Rafael Nadal (ESP x3) bt Joao Sousa (POR) 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 Serena Williams (USA x11) bt Carla Suarez Navarro (ESP x30) 6-2, 6-2 - Sidelines - Old boys' club -- For the first time in the Open Era, players aged 30 or over were in the majority in the Wimbledon last 16, with only eight players aged 29 or under. Roger Federer was the oldest at 37; Ugo Humbert the youngest at 21. Flat-footed -- US player Tennys Sandgren's apartment reservation ran out as he was not counting on making the second week at Wimbledon. The world number 94 managed to find a hotel room. Seeds fall on stony ground -- With just four top 10 seeds through to the men's fourth round, it was the fewest to reach the last 16 since 2008. It's tough being number one -- Ash Barty's downfall continues a grim record. In the last 13 years, the women's top seed has only won the title three times -- and each time it was Serena Williams. Dozen count -- Karolina Pliskova and Czech compatriot Karolina Muchova came oh so close to the first-ever 12-12 final set tie-break at Wimbledon but Muchova beat the third seed 13-11. Fifteen minutes of fate -- The seventh game of the first set between Elina Svitolina and Petra Martic took a lengthy 15 minutes to settle. - Who's saying what - "I'm going to have to get married -- I wish I could get married more often." -- Alison Riske is very much enjoying making wedding plans. "Any match, he'll just pull out some magic. I'm just really amazed at his hands, how fast they are, how athletic he is, but how graceful. It's like a ballerina with all that power. It's so effortless, it's amazing." -- Serena Williams on Roger Federer "Overall it's been a hell of a trip. Disappointed right now. Obviously it's a tough pill to swallow. In the same breath, it's been an incredible few months." -- Australian world number one Ashleigh Barty on her European sojourn that brought her the French Open title and a fourth round defeat at Wimbledon "I am the world number two and I won 18 Grand Slams." -- Rafael Nadal on whether women's world number one and one-time Grand Slam winner Ash Barty should have been on Centre Court instead of him. "Open the bottle properly. Hold the cork." -- All England Club chief executive Richard Lewis on eliminating the problem of champagne corks popping onto the courts. "I do the boxing workouts... I love watching it. In Ukraine there are great fighters... A long time ago I started doing boxing with my brother. Then throughout the years, continue doing it." -- Ukraine's Elina Svitolina on sibling in-fighting - Royal Box watch - Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge's brother and sister James and Pippa Middleton got an invite to the posh seats. Otherwise the box was dominated by golfers, led by the great Jack Nicklaus. Europe's 2018 Ryder Cup golf captain Thomas Bjorn was joined by his players Tommy Fleetwood, Sergio Garcia, Francesco Molinari, Thorbjorn Olesen and Lee Westwood. Three-time US Open golf winner Hale Irwin and 2016 Masters winner Danny Willett rounded out the golf set. They were joined by British Olympic rowing greats Steve Redgrave and Matthew Pinsent.