Wimbledon at a glance - day three: - Headlines - + Gauff, 15, wins again + Djokovic through in three + Anderson topples Tipsarevic + Wawrinka suffers giant defeat + Pliskova sinks Olympic champ + Azarenka to face Halep - Top results - Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Denis Kudla (USA) 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 Cori Gauff (USA) bt Magdalena Rybarikova (SVK) 6-3, 6-3 Kevin Anderson (RSA x4) bt Janko Tipsarevic (SRB) 6-4, 6-7 (5/7), 6-1, 6-4 Reilly Opelka (USA) bt Stan Wawrinka (SUI x22) 7-5, 3-6, 4-6, 6-4, 8-6 Karolina Pliskova (CZE x3) bt Monica Puig (PUR) 6-0, 6-4 - Sidelines - Shut it -- US 15-year-old sensation Cori Gauff's win over Magdalena Rybarikova was the first match ever to start under the new retractable roof on the 12,000-seater Court One. Socrates and sleaze -- Slovenian qualifier Kaja Juvan, 18, faces all-time great Serena Williams in the second round on Thursday and has been warming up by reading philosophy. "I like Socrates. It's really interesting because it was right at the beginning of philosophy -- he started it," she told the WTA website. To switch off, "I read some sleazy romantic teenage books", she added. Dozen count -- Wimbledon this year has introduced a tie-break if the final set goes to 12-12 which very nearly made its debut in the men's doubles. However Austrian combo Jurgen Melzer and Oliver Marach managed to snatch victory at 11-9. Twenty-one fun -- Victoria Azarenka won 21 straight games across her singles and doubles matches, winning 6-2, 6-0 on her own and 6-0, 6-1 with partner Ashleigh Barty. Little and large -- Nick Kyrgios warmed up for Thursday's grudge match against Rafael Nadal by hitting with his opponent's pint-sized Spanish compatriot Carla Suarez Navarro. At 1.62 metres (five feet, four inches) tall, she is 31 centimetres (one foot) shorter than the Australian. - Who's saying what - "I'm just still shocked that I'm even here." Fifteen-year-old qualifier Cori Gauff after reaching the last 32 "I was a bit too far to return a serve. I think I went against her, so I was sure she had some pain and was not happy, so I gave her a little hug." -- Stan Wawrinka on cuddling a line judge "Eventually it's going to come -- in about 25 years." -- Novak Djokovic on when the so-called Next Generation will finally overtake him, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal "Anything short of them winning, people might feel like they came up short." -- Milos Raonic on Andy Murray teaming up with Serena Williams in the mixed doubles "I was hoping with the success what I did with Jamie last year I was going to be honoured to get asked, but whatever." -- Victoria Azarenka on missing out on becoming Andy Murray's mixed doubles partner, having reached the 2018 final with his brother Jamie "I don't know and I don't care because I'm happy with what I have." -- Karolina Pliskova on how far women's equality has come in terms of social, cultural and economic factors "It might not be for everyone, but for me, I've found something that works, so why change it?" -- British player Eden Silva swears by thrice-weekly therapy through ancient Chinese Tuina medical massage - Royal Box watch - -- The day after Prince William's wife Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge visited the lowly outside courts, her parents Michael and Carole Middleton were in the posh seats. Other noted guests included Britain's former Formula One racing driver David Coulthard, England 2003 Rugby World Cup winner Matt Dawson and 1996 Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek.