The prospect of teaming up with the very best players in the women's game enticed Lucy Bronze to Lyon, and the England star now has her sights set on winning another Champions League with the all-conquering French club. Untouchable at home, Lyon also dominate in Europe and can lift the trophy for the fourth year running, and sixth time in nine seasons, when they take on Barcelona in Budapest on Saturday. Just three weeks before the start of the World Cup in France, the spotlight is on the women's game like never before. The semi-finals and final of the World Cup will be played in Lyon, making 'OL' all the more determined to confirm their status as the top club around. But Bronze, who moved to France from Manchester City in 2017, knows to take nothing for granted against a Barcelona side who are first-time finalists. "They are going to think they have nothing to lose, they are going to throw everything at us, a bit like when we played Chelsea," Bronze told AFP at the training ground which Lyon share with their male counterparts, in the shadow of the club's 59,000-seat Groupama Stadium. "They threw absolutely everything at us because it was their last big hope of silverware this season, and it's the same for Barcelona." Lyon edged out Chelsea in the semi-finals having defeated two-time winners Wolfsburg in the previous round. A year ago they overcame Barcelona in the last eight. "They made it hard for us last year when we played against them, it was a tough game. They play really good football, the same style as we like to play," added Bronze. "We want to get the ball down and pass it. We know that at our best we can beat them but it's going to be a fantastic game to play in and watch." The 27-year-old full-back had already won titles in England with Liverpool and City before coming to France, but Lyon have helped take her game to the next level. Coach Reynald Pedros's squad includes inaugural Ballon d'Or winner Ada Hegerberg and seven members of France's World Cup squad, among them captain Wendie Renard. Lyon have just won a domestic double. They went unbeaten through their league campaign, seeing off nearest challengers Paris Saint-Germain to become champions for the 13th year running. - Learning from the best - "I'm playing with the best players in the world, and you learn things from them," admitted Bronze, who is in England's World Cup squad. "I have always been really good physically and athletically, and that is what the English game is really good at, whereas in France, especially playing for Lyon, you have to be technical enough to play with the players around you." On Saturday, Bronze will come up against England colleague Toni Duggan as the women's final is played at a separate venue to the men's showpiece for the first time. In previous years, UEFA treated the match more like a warm-up to the main event. But their decision to change that was timely, with attendances at women's games exploding around Europe and interest growing all the time. Two weeks before Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur clash in Madrid, Lyon and Barcelona meet at the 22,000-seat home of Ferencvaros. "We've separated from the men completely in every single sense so this one is going to be a lot bigger," said Bronze. "It's obviously the lead-up to the World Cup which everyone is talking about, which is in France and we have a French team playing in the Champions League final. "All those things together are going to make for a really exciting game and a historic one."