French Open at a glance -- day 3 Headlines + Top seed Osaka avoids embarrassing loss + Defending champion Halep also wins in three sets + Zverev beats Millman in longest match of 2019 tournament + Del Potro recovers to reach round two in four sets against Jarry + Karlovic, 40, wins oldest Roland Garros men's match-up Top results Naomi Osaka (JPN x1) bt Anna Karolina Schmiedlova (SVK) 0-6, 7-6 (7/4), 6-1 Simona Halep (ROU x3) bt Ajla Tomljanovic (AUS) 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 Juan Martin del Potro (ARG x8) bt Nicolas Jarry (CHI) 3-6, 6-2, 6-1, 6-4 Alexander Zverev (GER x5) bt John Millman (AUS) 7-6 (7/4), 6-3, 2-6, 6-7 (5/7), 6-3 Ivo Karlovic (CRO) bt Feliciano Lopez (ESP) 7-6 (7/4), 7-5, 6-7 (7/9), 7-5 Sidelines Rough day for McDonald American Mackenzie McDonald had a day to forget, as he blew a lead to lose in five sets to Japan's Yoshihito Nishioka. He obviously was not feeling too well, either, as he was sick at the back of Court 10 following the first point of the deciding set, having taken a medical time-out at the end of the fourth. Fritz 'scared' by explosion American Taylor Fritz revealed he was close to a parcel bomb explosion while in Lyon last Friday which left 13 people injured. "It scared me a little bit that something like that happened... The area that it happened, I had been going a block away to get food every day. So it was just a bit scary to me." Fritz beat Bernard Tomic in straight sets to reach round two. French player hails 'fun' Kyrgios Elliot Benchetrit said he did not feel pressure to play a certain way after replacing Nick Kyrgios in the draw after the fiery Australian's withdrawal, although he did put on a show for the French fans with a one-sided win over Cameron Norrie. "I know Nick, he's really fun, but sometimes he makes some funny choices. I didn't want to play for show because I was replacing him, but replacing him or anyone else means that I was just going to play my tennis." Comeback queen Russian Anna Blinkova has dragged herself back from the brink twice at Roland Garros en route to a second-round match against home hope Caroline Garcia. She trailed 3-0 in a deciding set in the first qualifying round against Israel's Julia Glushko before winning 0-6, 6-4, 6-4, and on Tuesday overturned a third-set 4-0 deficit against compatriot Margarita Gasparyan to claim a 6-3, 4-6, 8-6 victory. Italian run ends after 37 years World number 210 Jasmine Paolini's first-round loss to Daria Kasatkina signalled the first time that there will not be an Italian woman in the French Open second round since 1982. Who's saying what "I think this is the most nervous I have ever been my entire life during a match." Top seed Naomi Osaka after narrowly avoiding a shock first-round defeat. "I complain a lot in Japanese. But I mutter it, so you guys probably don't hear it. But, yeah, usually when I'm complaining on the court, it's in Japanese because I don't want people to understand the English." Osaka on how she prevents English viewers from picking up on her frustrations. "Right now I have nothing to say, because they'll give me (a) fine." Fabio Fognini when asked to further explain his recent criticism of the Italian Open. "Nike really has done something different this year. I mean, maybe they're running out of ideas, but I think it's something different. And I can't complain. I actually really like it." Canadian rising star Bianca Andreescu on her skeleton-adorned top.