England's Bronte Law sees her first US LPGA Tour title as the beginning of something much bigger. Law got off to a hot start with four birdies on the front nine then delivered the knockout blow with another birdie on 16 to win the Pure Silk tournament in Williamsburg, Virginia, by two strokes on Sunday. "Oh my gosh, that was the biggest fight of my life," said Law, who closed with a final round of four-under 67 for her wire-to-wire win. Law finished with a 17-under 267 total as she held off a hard-charging field that included Madelene Sagstrom, Brooke Henderson and Nasa Hataoka. The trio tied for second at 15-under on the Kingsmill Resort course. The 24-year-old Law, who is in her third season on the Tour, said this is just the start of her first place trophy collection. "I came in this week with the sole intention of getting one better. It feels really good," she said. Law got some breaks on Sunday -- including one where Sweden's Sagstrom almost holed out on 18 with an eagle but the ball hit the pin and cup and rolled back 20 feet. She finished with a par. But Law said hard work, not luck, got her to where she is. "I don't believe in destiny. I believe in hard work and determination. I stayed so focused out there and my caddie did good job of keeping me calm," she said. Law, who was an amateur standout in Britain, placed second in her most recent start at the Mediheal Championship earlier this month. "I struggled with my driver a little bit out there, and I really had to stay strong and just play to my advantages and just really try to find those fairways because I was hitting my irons really good," she said. "So as long as I found those fairways, I was going to create some chances, and I ended up doing that towards the end. It feels amazing." Sagstrom shot 66, Henderson 68 and Hataoka 69. Henderson shot a bogey free round but came up short. "To be that close to the leaderboard and know that you left some out there is a good thing," she said. "I think this was a good way to lead into the US Open next week." Sagstrom, 26, also enjoyed a bogey-free round that featured five birdies. Hataoka balanced out two bogeys with four birdies to shoot two under on the day. World No. 1 Ko Jin-Young of South Korea shot 68 and finished tied with four players at eight under. Defending champion and world No. 4 Ariya Jutanugarn of Thailand, shot a disappointing 72 and finished tied for 43rd at four under. Ariya will be defending again next week at the US Women's Open in Charleston, South Carolina.