French Open day 5 -- at a glance Headlines + Osaka back from brink again to beat Azarenka + Serena cruises into third round + Djokovic into last 32 with son watching for first time + Champion Halep recovers from missed match points to win + Thiem survives 'underarm serving' Bublik Top results Naomi Osaka (JPN x1) bt Victoria Azarenka (BLR) 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 Serena Williams (USA x10) bt Kurumi Nara (JPN) 6-3, 6-2 Novak Djokovic (SRB x1) bt Henri Laaksonen (SUI) 6-1, 6-4, 6-3 Simona Halep (ROM x3) bt Magda Linette (POL) 6-4, 5-7, 6-3 Dominic Thiem (AUT x4) bt Alexander Bublik (KAZ) 6-3, 6-7 (6/8), 6-3, 7-5 Alexander Zverev (GER x5) bt Mikael Ymer (SWE) 6-1, 6-3, 7-6 (7/3) Sidelines Good hair day Osaka was quizzed on the best hair in tennis ahead of her curly-haired clash with Czech Katerina Siniakova. She name-checked last year's French Open junior champion Coco Gauff, a 15-year-old American. "I put my hair in a bun now, though. Um, hair. Oh, there is a girl, Coco Gauff, she has braids. I think it's cute. Hair... I don't really look at people like that. Sorry." Stop callin', stop callin' Taiwanese Hsieh Su-Wei took an inadvertent break during her marathon 4-6, 6-3, 8-6 loss to Germany's Andrea Petkovic. After one rally, the 25th seed ran into the sideboards, picked up someone's phone which had been left on the wall, and proceeded to pretend to make a call. Heavy defeat hits close to home French number three Gilles Simon was not too happy after being thrashed 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 by Italian world number 147 Salvatore Caruso. At least he had the small consolation of a short journey home. "After such a match, I just want to go home, which will not take too much time for me because I live 500 metres away." Ambidextrous Hoang French wildcard Antoine Hoang stunned Spanish 23rd seed Fernando Verdasco to reach the third round, having only won one ATP-level match before. He revealed that a childhood muscle problem meant he is capable of playing with both his dominant right hand and his left. "Well, the thing is I grew up rather late. My muscular development led to problems of shoulder, so I decided to train with my left hand, and I made quite a lot of progress," he said. "So from 12 to 13 years old until 16 or 17 I was progressing." Who's saying what "That's a new word. Oh, 'choked'. I thought you were saying 'chalk'. I was so confused. Sorry." Osaka is briefly stumped by a question in Japanese. "Today I lost, but I'm very happy to play with Serena on centre court. It's very special for me." Kurumi Nara enjoyed her day out despite managing to take just five games off Serena. "You know, he's too good for me." Swiss Henri Laaksonen in an honest mood after losing in straight sets to Djokovic. "Because they see me a lot, I feel like I spend the most time on court when I play a match. I guess they have got used to me a little bit now." Alexander Zverev on his connection with the Roland Garros crowd having played four five-set matches in the French Open in the last two years.