Europe's mainstream political parties lost ground but not yet power on Sunday to a strong challenge by the populist right of Marine Le Pen, Matteo Salvini and Nigel Farage. Projections based on exit polls and partial results show that eurosceptic and nationalist forces failed to win a majority in the European Parliament, but gained ground despite the bigger than expected turnout. In the symbolic clash of the campaign, French far right leader Le Pen's National Rally was on course to come in just ahead of President Emmanuel Macron's centrist movement, damaging his drive for deeper European integration. In Britain, Farage's one issue Brexit Party topped the polls with more than 31 percent, according to early results, and he will send a large contingent of British eurosceptics to a parliament they want to scrap. And in Italy, Salvini's far-right League achieved a similar result, strengthening its role at the core of a vocal populist faction in the EU's legislature. The advance of the right was less pronounced in Germany, where a strong showing by the Greens produced the story of the night, but the anti-immigrant AfD broke the 10 percent barrier and will gain seats. Turnout EU-wide was estimated at 51 percent, the highest in 20 years, suggesting more than 200 million citizens across the 28-nation bloc voted in a poll billed as a battle between populists and pro-European forces. Mainstream parties put up enough of a defence to keep a majority in the 751-seat assembly -- and Green parties surged in western Europe -- but Le Pen's victory in her head-to-head with Macron set the tone of the night. Across Europe, according to a projection prepared by the parliament, the centre-right European People's Party (EPP) is on course to have the most seats in the assembly with 178, down sharply from 216 in 2014. - 'Marginals less marginal' - With the centre-left Socialists and Democrats (S&D) projected to win 147, down from 185, the two mainstream parties will no longer have a majority and will have to reach out to liberals to maintain a "cordon sanitaire" and exclude the far-right from decision making. Each previous EU election since the first in 1979 has seen turnout fall, but initial figures from across the 28-nation bloc suggested this year's culture clash has mobilised both populists and those who oppose them. "I guess that some marginal parties will be less marginal tonight," European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker said as he cast his vote in his native Luxembourg. In Belgium the far-right Flemish separatist Vlaams Belang was on course to triple its previous score. And in Finland, the far-fight Finns Party increased its vote share and retained its two EU seats. The Sweden Democrats were on course to increase their share from 9.67 to 16.9 percent. In his home country of Poland, European Council chief Donald Tusk expressed confidence that voters would not succumb to the approach of what he called "radical political movements, eurosceptics". But he admitted that the stakes were high: "The first priority, not only for this institution, is to save the EU as a project, not only at this time but in the long term, and I'm sure that they will manage." In France, Macron had taken it upon himself to act as figurehead for the centrist and liberal parties, and Le Pen took up his challenge. "The gains for our allies in Europe and the emergence of new forces across the continent... open the way for the formation of a powerful group," said the lead campaigner for Le Pen's National Rally, Jordan Bardella. Another nationalist party, the Fidesz of Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban, was on course for a massive 56 percent victory, according to a poll conducted Sunday. - European democracy 'alive' - Turnout was much higher in many countries than in 2014, a historic low. German conservative Manfred Weber, lead candidate for the centre-right EPP group hailed the public interest, declaring: "European democracy is very much alive." The mainstream parties are vying between themselves for influence over the choice of a new generation of top EU officials, including the powerful president of the European Commission. EU leaders have been invited to a summit on Tuesday to decide how to choose the nominee. The EPP is insisting on Weber for the Commission, but Macron and some others oppose choosing a parliamentarian. burs-dc/txw