Opposition groups in Bolivia called Tuesday for a nationwide general strike following violent protests over election results that seemed set to hand another term to long-time president Evo Morales. Representatives of civil society organizations from Bolivia's six regions backed a call to extend a strike originally set for Tuesday in the country's largest city Santa Cruz. The organizations said a general strike would go into effect at midnight Tuesday (0300 GMT) and would "continue until democracy and the will of the citizens are respected." An umbrella organization of pro-Morales labor and farmers' unions, CONALCAM, called on its members to defend the official results. "We will go out on the streets and on the roads to firmly defend democracy and the votes of Bolivians," said the leader of the main union, Juan Carlos Guarachi, after a meeting with Morales. - Opposition fury - Opposition supporters reacted with fury on Monday to delayed results released by the electoral authorities that showed Morales just short of the 10 percentage-point margin he needed to win in the first round. Preliminary results released earlier showed opposition candidate Carlos Mesa coming in a close second in Sunday's polls and forcing a run-off. Monitors from the Organization of American States said the revised results showed a "drastic and hard-to-explain change in the trend of the preliminary results" that "clearly indicated a second round." The sudden change sparked rioting in several cities, with Mesa announcing he would not recognize the result. Mobs torched electoral offices in Sucre and Potosi, while rival supporters clashed in the capital La Paz. Long lines formed at gas stations amid fears of shortages. Health workers, on strike for the past month, demonstrated outside the electoral authority headquarters on Tuesday. Mesa, who served as president from 2001 to 2005, accused Morales of colluding with the Supreme Electoral Tribunal (TSE) to tweak delayed results and avoid a run-off. The United States's top diplomat in the region, Michael Kozak, called on the election authorities to "to immediately act to restore credibility in the vote counting process." Spain, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia also voiced concern. The OAS announced it would hold a special meeting on the situation in Bolivia on Wednesday at the request of Brazil, Canada, Colombia, the US and Venezuela. The partial results put Morales in the lead with 45 percent of the votes and Mesa at 38 percent, meaning Morales would have to contest a run-off for the first time. But results released late Monday, after a long and unexplained delay, showed Morales edging towards an outright victory with 95 percent of the votes counted. - Longest-serving president - Morales, Latin America's longest-serving president, is controversially seeking a fourth term. He obtained Constitutional Court permission in 2017 to run again for president after he ignored the result a 2016 referendum. The former coca farmer and leftist union leader has led the poor but resource-rich Latin American country for the past 13 years, though his popularity has waned amid allegations of corruption and authoritarianism. He has led the country since taking office in 2006, when he became its first indigenous president. A new mandate would keep him in power until 2025. As leader of his Movement for Socialism Party (MAS), Morales points to a decade of economic stability and considerable industrialization as his achievements, while insisting he has brought "dignity" to Bolivia's indigenous population, the largest in Latin America.