League leaders Lyon lost for the first time in the French Top 14 season suffering a 24-18 defeat at Clermont where fly-half Jake McIntyre kicked all the home side's points in heavy rain. The visitors' efforts to maintain their impressive start to the campaign were hampered after Australia flanker Liam Gill was shown a red card in the second-half. Clermont, without more than 10 players at the Rugby World Cup including France lock Sebastien Vahaamahina who was shown a red card in the quarter-final loss to Wales earlier in the day, moved up to fourth in the standings. As both sides struggled to keep possession in the wet, Jonathan Wisniewski kicked Lyon ahead three times, only for former Australia U20s fly-half McIntyre to reply each time. The hosts took the lead for first time after 32 minutes. Gill was shown a yellow card for infringing at a ruck and McIntyre slotted his fourth penalty of the match. Gill's first card proved costly as McIntyre converted his fifth eight minutes later and the home side led 15-9 at the break. The two outside-halves each kicked a penalty after the break and Clermont had a 18-12 advantage with half an hour to play. With 22 minutes remaining, Gill, who won the last of his 15 Wallabies caps in 2013, dived off his feet at an attacking Clermont ruck to earn a red card. - Marvellous McIntyre -0 McIntyre, who had missed for the only time in the match a minute earlier, converted this penalty to increase the lead to 21-12. Despite being down a man Lyon dominated the final quarter and Wisniewski closed the gap to six with less than three minutes to go. McIntyre then slotted his eighth to make sure of victory. Clermont moved to fourth in the table before a two-week break as the World Cup reaches its climax in Japan. On Saturday, ex-Fiji winger Timoci Nagusa celebrated his 200th Montpellier game by scoring in a 33-22 victory over champions Toulouse. Bottom of the table Stade Francais suffered a sixth defeat losing 27-15 to Agen. Racing 92 are one place above their Parisian rivals after a 12-6 loss at La Rochelle, who moved into fifth after a second straight win.