Thousands of fans across Washington D.C erupted in delight on Wednesday as the Nationals sealed their improbable World Series victory, triggering wild scenes in the US capital. Steady rain failed to dampen the mood of fans crowded into Nationals Park and a nearby open-air sports bar to watch the city's baseball team clinch its first championship. Fans celebrated the 6-2 game seven victory wildly, spilling onto the street, climbing fire trucks and dancing with police officers trying to move traffic along. "How do you think I feel?" asked James Forrest, 32, waving a Nationals flag. "We just won the World Series!" At the open-air Bullpen bar near Nationals Park, around 1,000 fans, many wearing plastic ponchos, watched the drama in Houston unfold on a big screen. "It's surreal that this is even happening," said Megan Ellis, a 23-year-old DC native. "Growing up, we didn't even have a baseball team." People stood on tables to get better views of the screen, their hair soaked and flattened by steady rain. "It's kind of insane, to be honest," said Andrew Valle, 34, watching the game with his elder brother Pat. "I mean, this team was awful early in the season. Nobody pegged them to have a chance." Every Nationals score was greeted with loud cheers while some fans hurled their drinks through the air as chants of "Let's go Nats!" rang out. "Everyone has such great energy, and everyone feeds off each other," said Casey Ryan, a student at Catholic University. "It's amazing and so much fun. I'm just glad that DC is all in," added Ellis. Around them, strangers fist-bumped and danced together, alternately singing the Nationals theme song and "Baby Shark." "I hate baseball, and the Nats made me like baseball," explained Alex Ryan, a nurse at Children's National Hospital. "They make you actually want to watch," the 22-year-old added. During the final inning, the entire crowd focused intensely on the screen, screaming in excitement with every pitch. When the final out was called, the bar erupted. Beer and ice cubes rained down from an upper balcony, and dancing started up again, revellers yanking their shirts off and waving them in the air. Outside the bar, people started playing drums. A fire truck pulled up, and several fans climbed up and started dancing on the top of the cab. Police officers attempted to keep traffic moving, but drivers slowed down, laying on their horns in signs of support. After a few minutes, the police joined in on the dancing.