An 84-year-old man accused of wounding two men in a shooting at a mosque in southern France wanted to avenge the burning of Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, prosecutors said Tuesday, adding there were questions over his psychological health. The attack, in the usually quiet city of Bayonne on Monday afternoon, further unsettled France which is currently engulfed in a sometimes bitter debate about the observance of Islam in the strictly secular country. The shooting by Claude Sinke, who once had links to the main far-right party, came just hours after President Emmanuel Macron had urged Muslims to step up the fight against what he called Islamic "separatism". The regional prosecutor said that said in questioning Sinke made clear he "wanted to avenge the destruction of the cathedral in Paris" which he blamed on Muslims. Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris was badly damaged in a fire in April that investigators have said was an accident. There has never been any suggestion of intent by any party. Prosecutor Marc Mariee said that Sinke was being examined by a psychologist to determine the extent of criminal responsibility. The "entire interrogation poses questions over the state of his psychological health," he said. Mariee said he was also in constant touch with France's national anti-terror prosecutor who would decide if a terror investigation should be opened. - 'Not party member' - The victims, aged 74 and 78, one of whom was hit in the neck and the other in the chest, were in a stable condition in hospital Tuesday, local authorities said. Sinke had stood as a candidate for far-right leader Marine Le Pen's National Rally in 2015 regional elections, but the party has since distanced itself from him. Le Pen labelled the attack "an unspeakable act" and "absolutely contrary to the values of our movement". The National Rally said Sinke was "no longer a member" of the party, which stands on an anti-migrant platform. Mike Bresson, deputy mayor of Sinke's home village, Saint-Martin-de-Seignanx, said he was known for his "verbal excesses". He told AFP Sinke behaved "like someone with a psychological disturbance. He didn't like people from the left, nor the centre, and few of those on the right". According to the Sud-Ouest local newspaper, Sinke had addressed an angry letter last week to Bayonne authorities and prosecutors, seeking to bring charges against Macron for "non-application of human rights". - 'Heinous' - The man "approached the building by car and threw an incendiary device against the side door of the mosque," Bayonne mayor Jean-Rene Etchegaray said at the scene. "The two people came out, he shot at them, hitting one in the neck and the other in the chest and arm. He then fled." The man was tracked thanks to his number plate to Saint-Martin-de-Seignanx, a settlement of some 5,000 people just 16 kilometres (10 miles) from Bayonne. A source close to the investigation said Sinke, who is accused of attempted murder, had admitted to being the shooter. He had also set fire to a car outside the mosque. In a tweet late Monday, Macron condemned it as a "heinous attack". "The Republic will never tolerate hatred," the president. "Everything will be done to punish the perpetrators and protect our Muslim compatriots. I commit myself to it." - 'Not surprising' - Macron, a centrist whose main political rival at home is Le Pen, has been under pressure to show he is serious about cracking down on Islamic radicalism. The issue re-erupted after the latest attack by an Islamist radical on French soil, in which a police employee stabbed four colleagues to death in Paris on October 3. The issue again made headlines when a National Rally politician asked a woman accompanying her son and other children on a school trip to remove her headscarf, which he described as an "Islamist provocation". On Tuesday, the French senate was debating a draft law proposed by the National Rally to ban parents accompanying their children on school trips from wearing visible religious insignia. Abdallah Zekri of the French Council of the Muslim Faith (CFCM) said Monday there was "a great deal of concern" among France's Muslims. He said attacks such as the one in Bayonne Sinke were "not surprising given the climate of stigmatisation of Islam and Muslims".