Fiat Chrysler and Groupe PSA, the maker of Peugeot and Citroen cars, announced Wednesday they were in merger talks that could propel them into the top ranks as the world's fourth largest automaker. The potential $50 billion tie-up, coming on the heels of a failed attempt earlier this year to combine Fiat Chrysler with Renault, could help both automakers better navigate a highly competitive global environment notably facing a costly industry shift from gas-fueled cars to electric vehicles. Italian-US carmaker Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) confirmed in a statement that "there are ongoing discussions aimed at creating one of the world's leading mobility groups" with France's PSA. A similar statement from PSA offered no additional details. A combined FCA-PSA would bring needed scale to a transforming industry, with 8.7 million vehicles sold per year and 184 million euros in annual sales. A person with knowledge of the matter told AFP on Tuesday that a merger -- which is not guaranteed -- would create a firm valued at about $50 billion. PSA could gain access to the lucrative US market, while fulfilling the long-held goal of late ex-FCA head Sergio Marchionne for a merger to survive escalating costs and competition. The tie-up would make the new automaker the fourth largest in terms of sales behind Volkswagen, Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi and Toyota, and would combine a host of well-known brands from Alfa Romeo, Jeep and Dodge to Citroen, Opel and Peugeot. Investors cheered the news. FCA shares in Milan raced over 9 percent higher in morning trading. Meanwhile, PSA shares climbed more than 6 percent in Paris. "We're in a period where grey skies are gathering over the auto industry. When business is harder, competition is stronger and margins get thinner," said Flavien Neuvy, director of the Cetelem Observatory, a research unit of BNP Paribas. To offset the billions in investments needed, size is critical, Neuvy added. Challenges facing today's automakers include slowing consumer demand, a confusing patchwork of emissions regulations, and the need to invest heavily in advanced technologies, such as those needed for self-driving cars. The negotiations come four months after talks to merge FCA with Renault broke down, a potential deal scuppered in part by resistance from the French government, which owns a stake in Renault as it does PSA. Analyst Michael Hewson at CMC Markets UK cautioned in a note that political pressure from Paris could again be an obstacle, given that the French government holds an approximately 12 percent stake in PSA. "It is hard not to see that this attempt by Fiat might well go the same way as the failed Renault attempt earlier this year," wrote Hewson. "Business and government always make uncomfortable bedfellows." France's economy ministry said in a statement the state would be "particularly vigilant" about jobs, corporate governance and preserving the industrial footprint when assessing any merger. The negotiations "attest to the movement towards global consolidation in the auto industry, which is necessary and in which France wants to play its role," the ministry wrote. Italian vice economy minister, Antonio Misiani, said the industry was facing a new paradigm with the transition towards electric and self-driving cars and added it was "vital to preserve (existing) sites in Italy. He added Rome was "observing attentively the evolution of the sector and the future of FCA." Under a merger, Carlos Tavares, the chief executive of Peugeot's parent, Groupe PSA, would lead the company as CEO while John Elkann, chairman of FCA, would be chairman, the source said. According to Bloomberg News, FCA's board of directors was to hold an emergency meeting on Wednesday. - Consolidation - A merger of the two groups would bring under one roof Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Citroen, Dodge, DS, Jeep, Lancia, Maserati, Opel, Peugeot and Vauxhall, while combining the strengths of the two groups. Despite its Italian origins with Fiat, FCA is weaker in Europe compared to PSA with its French and German mass market brands. The company also lags in bringing electric cars to market and investing in nascent forms of mobility. PSA is absent from the massive US market, where FCA has Chrysler plus the Jeep, Dodge and Ram brands. China's Dongfeng holds a 14% stake in PSA, which could be an asset as a larger PSA-FCA tries to take share in the world's largest car market. "Both FCA and PSA need an alliance," Marco Bentivogli, head of the Italian trade union Fim-Cisl, said late on Tuesday when reports of merger talks first began to circulate. Patrick Michel, head of the FO trade union at PSA, commented that "I remain dubious -- but I do see a number of advantages ... this would give PSA greater heft vis-a-vis giants such as Toyota or Volkswagen, and it would give Fiat access to technology allowing it to respect future CO2 emission limits." PSA posted a new record for revenues of 74 billion euros ($82 billion) in 2018 while FCA reported 110 billion euros in revenue. The French group has a market capitalisation of 22.54 billion euros on the Paris Stock Exchange, while FCA is valued at just over $28 billion on Wall Street and 20.74 billion euros in Milan. burs-ams/cdw